DOC-2102: Document new `streamContent` property for the `iframe` dialog component (#2818)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: modules/ROOT/partials/configuration/dialog_streamContent.adoc

[[streamContent]]
== `streamContent`

`+streamContent+` is an optional property, available to add to the `+iframe+` dialog component.

The property has a default value of `+false+`.

When `+streamContent+` is set to true, content presented within the `+iframe+` dialog component is updated using the `document.write()` method, rather than the by using the `+srcdoc+` attribute.

The `+srcdoc+` attribute requires the `+iframe+` be reloaded each time the content changes. This results in a flickering effect.

As well, performing updates via the `+srcdoc+` attribute means the contents of the `+iframe+` are not accessible. As a consequence, it is not possible to automatically scroll the `+iframe+` contents to the bottom as it gets updated.

> Setting `+streamContent+` to `+true+` switches the update mechanism to the `document.write()` method and presents incoming content as a stream at an end-of-the-current data position.

Reviewer: Not really sure what you mean by "presents incoming content as a stream at an end-of-the-current data position". 

Setting `streamContent` to `true` to update content would:
1. Minimise flickering by using `document.write()` as an optimisation for updating content rapidly when streaming, and
2. Keep the scroll at the bottom of the iframe document _if before the update the scroll was already at the bottom_. The part in italics is important as this would allow for the user to freely scroll around the iframe as it is being updated, and once the user returns the scroll to the bottom, it will again keep the scroll at the bottom. 

The overall goal of `streamContent: true` is to give the iframe a _feeling_ as if the content is being intermittently streamed in (typewriter-like effect). The reason why I say a feeling is that we are not really "streaming" content into the iframe by adding a chunk of incoming data to the end each time, we are rather rewriting the entire iframe content each time but our ways of doing it give it a stream-like effect.

Reviewer 2: We should also distinguish that the recommended method for updating the iframe content is:

- `streamContent: false`: `api.redial(newSpec)` where the newSpec contains the new data, using the name of the iframe as the key.
- `streamContent: true`: `api.setData({ iframeName: 'new content' })` where only the data of the iframe needs to be updated.

Theres probably a better way to describe this.

Reviewer: Both ways, `api.setData` should be the preferred method - why redial the entire dialog when you can just target the iframe component you want to update

Reviewer 2: True, I realise we only do it in the plugin since the iframe component isn't initially in the dialog 🤦

> Setting `+streamContent+` to `+true+`, and switching the update mechanism to the `document.write()` method, stops the flickering and allows the `+iframe+` to constantly present the incoming content at an end-of-the-current data position.

Reviewer 3: @MitchCTiny Is it worth mentioning the `string concatenation` here?

Reviewer: No, since this is documentation for the core change. String concatenation is something we do in the AI plugin to keep track of the overall AI response, but this doesn't always need to happen depending on the type of usage.

> Setting `+streamContent+` to `+true+`, and switching the update mechanism to the `document.write()` method, stops the flickering and allows the `+iframe+` to constantly present the incoming content at an end-of-the-current data position.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Setting `+streamContent+` to `+true+` switches the update mechanism to the `document.write()` method and constantly presents the incoming content at an end-of-the-current data position.
```

*Type:* `+Boolean+`

*Possible values:* `+true+` `+false+`

*Default value:* `false`

=== Example: setting an `iframe` component to display updating content using the `streamContent` property

[source,js]
----
tinymce.activeEditor.windowManager.open({
  title: 'Dialog Title', // The dialog's title - displayed in the dialog header
  size: 'normal',
  body: {
    type: 'panel', // The root body type - a Panel or TabPanel
    items: [ // A list of panel components
      {
        name: 'preview',
        type: 'iframe',

>         streamContent: 'true',
>         border: 'true'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        streamContent: true
```

>     items: [ // A list of panel components
>     {
>       name: 'preview',
>       type: 'iframe',
>       streamContent: 'true',
>       border: 'true',
>     }
>     ]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    items: [ // A list of panel components
      {
        name: 'preview',
        type: 'iframe',
        streamContent: 'true',
        border: 'true'
      }
    ]
```

    },
    buttons: [ // A list of footer buttons
      {
        type: 'submit',
        text: 'OK'
      }
    ]
}, { inline: 'bottom' } );
----

[NOTE]
.Dialog position
====
The example above also adds a second argument — `{ inline: 'bottom' } — to the dialog. This argument changes the presented position of the dialog within the {productname} editor.

For information on using this property see the xref:dialog-configuration.adoc#dialog-position[Dialog position] section of the xref:dialog-configuration.adoc[Dialog configuration documentation].

> ====

Reviewer 3: @shanmen-tiny Can you confirm that we should be documenting `{ inline: 'bottom' } );`?

My understanding from our conversation was that this argument is **not** something an integrator can change/update, which leads me question if this should be in the docs or kept internally?

Reviewer 5: @kemister85 The API or `windowManager` is exposed to the public, I think we should document it. It is not possible to change the dialogs location or option that we have built in the plugins/core. However, if they wish they can choose to use the API to create custom dialogs and have it positioned/opened at the desired location.

*Type:* `+Boolean+`

*Possible values:* `+true+` `+false+`

*Default value:* `false`

=== Example: setting an `iframe` component to display updating content using the `streamContent` property

[source,js]
----
tinymce.activeEditor.windowManager.open({
  title: 'Dialog Title', // The dialog's title - displayed in the dialog header
  size: 'normal',
  body: {
    type: 'panel', // The root body type - a Panel or TabPanel
    items: [ // A list of panel components
      {
        name: 'preview',
        type: 'iframe',
        streamContent: true
      }
    ]
    },
    buttons: [ // A list of footer buttons
      {
        type: 'submit',
        text: 'OK'
      }
    ]
}, { inline: 'bottom' } );
----

[NOTE]
.Dialog position
====
The example above also adds a second argument — `{ inline: 'bottom' } — to the dialog. This argument changes the presented position of the dialog within the {productname} editor.

For information on using this property see the xref:dialog-configuration.adoc#dialog-position[Dialog position] section of the xref:dialog-configuration.adoc[Dialog configuration documentation].
====

=== Recommended method for updating content in an `+iframe+` component

> The recommended method for updating content in an `+iframe+` component is:
> 
> [source,js]
> ----
> `streamContent: false: api.redial(newSpec)`
> ----
> 
> . This targets the component to be updated.
> 
> . `newSpec` contains the new data.
> 
> . Use the `+iframe+` name as the key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The recommended method for updating content in an `+iframe+` component is:

[source,js]
----
`onAction: (api) => api.setData({ myiframe: 'new content' })`
----

. This updates the iframe to contain the string `'new content'`. This text can be any valid html.

. `onAction` is a callback defined in the dialog spec. It is called when a button within the dialog `body` is triggered.

. `myiframe` is the name of the `+iframe+` component in this spec.

```
This is the recommended method for updating the iframe content.
